README.md, before:

# FancyResource

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/PinionTech/fancy-resource.png "Build Status")](https://travis-ci.org/PinionTech/fancy-resource)

FancyResource is an experiment to add support for server-side validations and
proper nested resources (of their own 'class') to ngResource.

It is implemented as straight copy of ngResource + the ngResource specs.
I changed the name to 'fancyResource' in order to isolate the changes to a part
of my application while the rest continues to use ngResource.

Additional specs have been written to cover the extra features.

FancyResource is backwards-compatible with ngResource when the extra arguments
to the $fancyResource service (for enabling server-side validation and nested
resources) are omitted.

## Usage

Declare a dependency on the fancyResource module, like you would with
ngResource and inject the $fancyResource service into your own code.

    Employee = $fancyResource('/Employees/:id', {id:'@id.key'}, {}, true);
    Manager = $fancyResource('/Managers/:id', {id:'@id.key'}, {}, true, {
      employees: [ Employee ]
    });

The boolean argument at the end of the first `$fancyResource` is what enables
server side validations support. It defaults to `false` to remain
backwards-compatible with `$resource`.

The second `$fancyResource` call creates another resource but this time with
support for nested resources. The object literal specifies an `employees`
property on `Manager` instances that contains an array of `Employee` objects.
Withouth the array the relationship would be a 'has-one' relationship.

## The !validation endpoint

    Employee = $fancyResource('/Employees/:id', {id:'@id.key'}, {}, true);

creates all of the usual routes that you would expect with `ngResource` and you
also get the following

 - POST /Employees/:id!validate
 - POST /Employees/!validate

Ideally the server should return a `200 OK` instead of a `201 Object Created`.
(It's a matter of taste; FancyResource will not care as long as $http does not
consider the response an error).

This request should *never* return a 400 error. A 400 should be reserved for
requests that actually have side effects such as a save or an update of
a resource.

### Creating and updating resources

When a regular PUT or POST is executed to update or create your resources,
FancyResource will look for the `errors` property. If this property is present,
it will be copied into the client-side resource.

### The 'errors' property

This is a JavaScript object where each key is a property of the resource and
each value is an array of error messages about that property.

Support for 'object-level' errors will be added soon.

## Feedback

Feedback and patches are welcome. Also feel free to critique my JS skills - it's
not my main language and I suspect there may be some dumb code in here.

## Future directions

- Provide a live server side validations feature for as-you-type validations
  (throttled).
- NgModelController tracks pristine, dirty and valid/invalid states. Perhaps
  the server & client-side validations can be married somehow.
- Would be great to get this functionality into a state where it can be merged
  into ngResource or into Angular as an alternative to ngResource :)

## Running the tests

Angular.js is included as a git submodule. Clone it like this:

    git submodule update --init

Build the angular.js artefacts:

    cd deps/angular.js && rake package

Install testacular:

    npm install testacular

Run the tests:

    scripts/test.sh

Commit message:

Updated README.md regarding validations

README.md, after:

# FancyResource

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/PinionTech/fancy-resource.png "Build Status")](https://travis-ci.org/PinionTech/fancy-resource)

FancyResource is an experiment to add support for server-side validations and
proper nested resources (of their own 'class') to ngResource.

It is implemented as straight copy of ngResource + the ngResource specs.
I changed the name to 'fancyResource' in order to isolate the changes to a part
of my application while the rest continues to use ngResource.

Additional specs have been written to cover the extra features.

FancyResource is backwards-compatible with ngResource when the extra arguments
to the $fancyResource service (for enabling server-side validation and nested
resources) are omitted.

## Usage

Declare a dependency on the fancyResource module, like you would with
ngResource and inject the $fancyResource service into your own code.

    Employee = $fancyResource('/Employees/:id', {id:'@id.key'}, {}, true);
    Manager = $fancyResource('/Managers/:id', {id:'@id.key'}, {}, true, {
      employees: [ Employee ]
    });

The boolean argument at the end of the first `$fancyResource` is what enables
server side validations support. It defaults to `false` to remain
backwards-compatible with `$resource`.

The second `$fancyResource` call creates another resource but this time with
support for nested resources. The object literal specifies an `employees`
property on `Manager` instances that contains an array of `Employee` objects.
Withouth the array the relationship would be a 'has-one' relationship.

## The !validation endpoint

    Employee = $fancyResource('/Employees/:id', {id:'@id.key'}, {}, true);

creates all of the usual routes that you would expect with `ngResource` and you
also get the following

 - POST /Employees/:id!validate
 - POST /Employees/!validate

Ideally the server should return a `200 OK` instead of a `201 Object Created`.
(It's a matter of taste; FancyResource will not care as long as $http does not
consider the response an error).

This request should *never* return a 400 error. A 400 should be reserved for
requests that actually have side effects such as a save or an update of
a resource.

Resources can be validating by calling the `$validate()` method.

### Validating a single property

FancyResource supports validating a single property at a time. This is great
when you want a live validation in a form for example. To validate a single
field, call `validateProperty('propertyName')` on the resource instance.

The only *new* errors added to the resource will be errors associated with that
property. However, it will always take the opportunity to clear as many errors
as possible so errors associated with other fields will be cleared if possible.

### Throttled validations

`validateProperty(property)` is designed for live-validation of forms.  This
could be expensive if triggered on every keystroke, so instead the backend API
call to the $http service is throttled to call no more than once every two
seconds.

### Creating and updating resources

When a regular PUT or POST is executed to update or create your resources,
FancyResource will look for the `errors` property. If this property is present,
it will be copied into the client-side resource.

### The 'errors' property

This is a JavaScript object where each key is a property of the resource and
each value is an array of error messages about that property.

Support for 'object-level' errors will be added soon.

## Feedback

Feedback and patches are welcome. Also feel free to critique my JS skills - it's
not my main language and I suspect there may be some dumb code in here.

## Future directions

- Provide a live server side validations feature for as-you-type validations
  (throttled).
- NgModelController tracks pristine, dirty and valid/invalid states. Perhaps
  the server & client-side validations can be married somehow.
- Would be great to get this functionality into a state where it can be merged
  into ngResource or into Angular as an alternative to ngResource :)

## Running the tests

Angular.js is included as a git submodule. Clone it like this:

    git submodule update --init

Build the angular.js artefacts:

    cd deps/angular.js && rake package

Install testacular:

    npm install testacular

Run the tests:

    scripts/test.sh
